			PRESS RELEASE
			10-Oct-1991
	For Immediate Release, Distribution Unlimited.

The U. S. Army Ballistic Research Laboratory (BRL) is proud to announce
the availability of Release 4.0 of the BRL-CAD Package.

The BRL-CAD Package is a powerful Constructive Solid Geometry (CSG)
based solid modeling system.  BRL-CAD includes an interactive geometry
editor, a ray tracing library, two ray-tracing based lighting models,
a generic framebuffer library, a network-distributed image-processing
and signal-processing capability, and a large collection of related
tools and utilities. Release 4.0 is the latest version of software which
has been undergoing continuous development since 1979.

The most significant new feature for Release 4.0 is the addition of
n-Manifold Geometry (NMG) support based on the work of Kevin Weiler.
The NMG software converts CSG solid models into approximate
polygonalized boundary representations, suitable for processing by
subsequent applications and high-speed hardware display.

BRL-CAD is used at over 800 sites located throughout the world.
It is provided in source code form only, and totals more than 280,000
lines of "C" code.

BRL-CAD supports a great variety of geometric representations, including
an extensive set of traditional CSG primitive solids such as blocks,
cones and torii, solids made from closed collections of Uniform B-Spline
Surfaces as well as Non-Uniform Rational B-Spline (NURBS) Surfaces,
purely faceted geometry, and n-Manifold Geometry (NMG). All geometric
objects may be combined using boolean set-theoretic operations such as
union, intersection, and subtraction.

Material properties and other attribute properties can be associated
with geometry objects. This combining of material properties with
geometry is a critical part of the link to applications codes. BRL-CAD
supports a rich object-oriented set of extensible interfaces by means of
which geometry and attribute data are passed to applications.

A few of the applications linked to BRL-CAD include:

*) Optical Image Generation (including specular/diffuse reflection,
	refraction, multiple light sources, and articulated animation)
*) An array of military vehicle design and evaluation V/L Codes
*) Bistatic laser analysis
*) Predictive Synthetic Aperture Radar Codes (including codes due to ERIM)
*) High-Energy Laser Damage
*) High-Power Microwave Damage
*) Weights and Moments-of-Inertia
*) Neutron Transport Code
*) PATRAN [TM] and hence to ADINA, EPIC-2, NASTRAN, etc.
	for structural/stress analysis
*) X-Ray image calculation

BRL-CAD requires the UNIX operating system and is supported on more
than a dozen product lines from workstations to supercomputers,
including: Alliant FX/8 and FX/80, Alliant FX/2800, Apple Macintosh II,
Convex C1, Cray-1, Cray X-MP, Cray Y-MP, Cray-2, Digital Equipment VAX,
Gould/Encore PN 6000/9000, IBM RS/6000, Pyramid 9820, Silicon Graphics
3030, Silicon Graphics 4D ``Iris'', Sun Microsystems Sun-3, and the Sun
Microsystems Sun-4 ``SparcStation''. Porting to other UNIX systems is
very easy, and generally only takes a day or two.

You may obtain a copy of the BRL-CAD Package distribution materials in
one of two ways:

1.  FREE distribution with no support privileges:  Those users with
online access to the DARPA InterNet may obtain the BRL-CAD Package via
FTP file transfer, at no cost, after completing and returning a signed
copy of the printed distribution agreement. A blank agreement form is
available only via anonymous FTP from host ftp.brl.mil (address
128.63.16.158) from file "brl-cad/agreement". There are encrypted
FTP-able files in several countries around the world. Directions on how
to obtain and decrypt the files will be sent to you upon receipt of your
signed agreement. One printed set of BRL-CAD documentation will be
mailed to you at no cost. Note that installation assistance or telephone
support are available only with full service distributions.

2.  FULL SERVICE distribution:  The Survivability/Vulnerability
Information Analysis Center (SURVIAC) administers the supported BRL-CAD
distributions and information exchange programs for BRL through the
SURVIAC Aberdeen Satellite Office. The full service distribution cost is
US$500.  There is no cost to US Government Agencies. A copy of the
BRL-CAD package will be provided to you on your choice of magnetic tape
media. You may also elect to obtain your copy via network FTP. One
printed set of BRL-CAD documentation will be mailed to you. BRL-CAD
maintenance releases and errata sheets will be provided at no additional
charge, and you will have access to full technical assistance by phone,
FAX, letter, or E-mail.  Complete and return a signed copy of the
distribution agreement and survey form with a check or purchase order
payable to "BA&H/SURVIAC" and mail to:

	BRL-CAD Distribution
	SURVIAC Aberdeen Satellite Office
	1003 Old Philadelphia Road
	Suite 103
	Aberdeen MD  21001  USA

For further details, call Ms. Carla Moyer at USA (410)-273-7794, send
E-mail to <cad-dist@brl.mil>, FAX your letter to USA (410)-272-6763,
or write to the above address.

Those sites selecting the free distribution may upgrade to full service
status at any time.  All users have access to the BRL-CAD Symposia,
workshops, user's group, and BRL-CAD mailing list via E-mail.


Sincerely,



Lee A. Butler			Glenn M. Gillis
Advanced Computer Systems		SURVIAC
Army Research Laboratory Satellite Office





$Revision$
