BRL-CAD Common Projects
=======================

BRL-CAD is comprised of several projects that have specific
distinguishing qualities of utility that make them interesting
STAND-ALONE projects applicable to a generally WIDE AUDIENCE of users.
In some cases, these projects may be independently maintained and are
sometimes even independently distributed.  In general, each of these
common projects could exist solely as an independent project but they
are included with BRL-CAD as part of the collective solid modeling and
processing toolset.  These projects are described below:

Geometry Modeling Kernel
	When combined together, several of the core libraries form
BRL-CAD's geometry modeling kernel.  This modeling kernel provides
fundamental geometric representation, ray-trace analysis, and
geometric processing capabilities via a high-performance procedural C
API designed for multithreaded processing and fast ray-intersection
evaluation.  The geometry engine directly supports the representation
and evaluation of implicit and explicit form primitive objects
including arbitrary polyhedron, toroids, generalized conics,
ellipsoids, NURBS, meshes, parabolics, hyperbolics, and more.  Also
supported are Constructive Solid Geometry (CSG) expressions, boundary
representation (BREP) objects, 2D sketches, 3D extrusions, height
fields, pipe/cabling construction, and more.  The geometry modeling
kernel is comprised of libbu, libbn, librt, libwdb, liboptical,
libmultispectral, and the ray-trace interface application back-end.

Network Package Library
	The libpkg Network Package Library (PKG) interface implements
a client-server network connection that multiplexes synchronous and
asynchronous messages across stream connections.  PKG provides a
simple interface for managing client/server connections in a
distributed environment, providing a non-blocking interface that
accepts arbitrary data messages of arbitrary length.

MGED
	The Multiple-device Geometry EDitor (MGED) is an interactive
solid modeler that provides a graphical user interface as well as a
robust text-based command interface.  MGED heavily utilizes
Constructive Solid Geometry (CSG) solid modeling techniques for
geometric construction and supports various display manager interfaces
for extensive cross-platform support.

Archer
	Containing the majority of the command functionality provided
by MGED, Archer is a new GUI-based solid model viewer and editing
tool.  Archer is based on MGED in many respects while providing an
improved GUI.
	
ADRT
	The Advanced Distributed Ray-Tracer (ADRT) includes a high
performance triangle intersection engine (libtie), a real-time
ray-tracer (ISST), and a path-tracer for realistic image synthesis
(RISE).  ADRT deals only with a triangle mesh representation,
providing a high-performance triangle-ray evaluation engine that
leverages much computer graphics research on maintaining ray coherency
and fast KD-Tree traversal.  In all, the system is capable of
evaluation several million rays per second allowing for real-time
interactive ray-tracing of faceted models.

Benchmark Suite
	The BRL-CAD Benchmark Suite is a system performance analysis
benchmark that tests the performance of a given system's CPU, memory,
cache coherency, kernel context switching, and compiler optimization
capabilities.  The benchmark provides a linearly comparable metric of
overall system performance that may be used to quantitatively evaluate
the relative performance of a given system, particular compilers,
compilation options, and hardware architecture designs.  This
performance test is based on a real-world CPU intensive application of
ray-tracing, providing a reliable metric of actual system performance
that may be compared across more than two decades of computing.

Image Processing Tools
	There are many image converters (e.g. pix-*, bw-*, *-pix,
*-bw, pix*, bw*), image processing, and image manipulation tools in
the package that provide basic image management.  The processing tools
support several common formats including PNG, RLE, PPM, PS, and SUN
images as well as a variety of image processing tools that work on raw
image data.

Signal processing 
	There are a variety of signal processing utilities (e.g. *mod,
ifft, dfft, s-i, i-d, cv, wavelet) in the package that categorically
manipulate raw data streams according to specified criteria.  These
manipulations include data conversion and filtering capabilities as
well as various transformations including discrete and non-discrete
Fast Fourier transforms (FFT) and wavelet decomposition.

Geometry converters
	Included are a variety of importers and exporters for various
geometry file formats (e.g. g-* and *-g).  Exporters include DXF,
EUCLID, NFF, OBJ, STL, TANKILL, VRML, X3D, and OpenGL vertex array
buffers.  Importers include CY, DXF, ENF, EUCLID, FAST4, NASTRAN, PLY,
STL, TANKILL, and VIEWPOINT.  BRL-CAD also provides a Unigraphics/NX
exporter application as well as a Pro/Engineer export plug-in.

Raytracers
	Included are a variety of ray-tracers for analyzing geometry
for either visualization or geometric purposes.  This includes the
"rt" ray-tracer, the "rtedge" and "rthide" hidden-line edge
ray-tracers, "rtarea" for computing exposed and presented surface
areas, "rtshot" for single-query ray analysis, the "rtxray" X-Ray
transport ray-tracer, the "nirt" interactive ray-evaluation
ray-tracer, the "lgt" interactive shaded image ray-tracer, as well as
"rtweight" and "g_qa" for computing mass, volume,
overlaps/interferences, and more.

ttcp
	The "Test Transmission Control Protocol" tool is a network
throughput performance benchmark tool used to evaluate the performance
of TCP and UDP network connections.  TTCP may also be used as an
excellent tool for bootstrapping hosts onto the network by forming a
communication pipe between two machines.  This communication pipe may
be used to transfer files to a remote system that does not otherwise
have a means available to receive files as well as for the evaluation
of raw throughput performance of the network connection between the
two systems.  TTCP includes support for sourcing to/from memory,
variable packet sizes, and loading metrics.  TTCP is described as a
standard testing tool for TCP implementors via Network Working Group
RFC 2398.

JOVE
	"Jonathan's Own Version [of] Emacs" (JOVE) is a simple
lightweight Emacs-like text editor.  JOVE provides common Emacs
keyboard bindings as well as an assortment of useful editing features
including interactive shell windows and language-specific modes while
using minimal CPU, memory, and disk requirements comparable to the vi
editor.

autogen.sh
	Part of the build system, autogen.sh is a bootstrap script
that effectively implements the majority of autoreconf in POSIX shell
script format while accounting for a variety of common system
configuration issues, common project configuration issues, and common
GNU Build System (GBS, i.e. autoconf, automake, and libtool) bugs.
The autogen.sh bootstrap script automatically works around many of
those common issues for the user and/or reports the problems in what
is generally a considerably more human-readable form than that
normally provided by the GBS toolset output.  Additionally, the script
will ensure that users have minimum and consistent versions of the GBS
tools installed.

Example Geometry
	BRL-CAD geometry database files are platform independent files
that are used to store solid geometry models.  There are several
example database models that have been made openly available (db/*.g)
that cover a wide range of example solid model geometry including
basic parts, buildings, procedural geometry, and military vehicles.

Documentation
	Over the years, extensive documentation has been written for
BRL-CAD including many manual pages, quick reference sheets, and a
detailed tutorial series.  The tutorial series covers an introduction
to the package, details on the modeling philosophies, an introduction
to the MGED solid modeler, a more advanced geometry modeling
techniques guide, and provides principles of effective modeling.  The
tutorials take a user through many guided exercises that build upon
each other working towards more complex exercise examples the show
some of the basic modeling and processing capabilities possible.

Image Conversion Library
	Does not currently exist.

Geometry Conversion Library
	Does not currently exist.
