-*- Text -*-
This is the Utah Raster Toolkit distribution version 3.0 of June, 1990.
The Utah Raster Toolkit is now distributed from the University of
Michigan and the University of Utah.

Major changes from version 2.0 are detailed (as much as possible) in the
CHANGES file.  One change to be aware of, if you have toolkit programs
of your own is that many function and data structure names have
changed.  See CHANGES for details.

The source-only distribution contains the following subdirectories
	cnv:		File conversion directory.  A collection of
			utilities for converting to and from the Utah
			RLE format.

	etc:		Contains some other sample programs that may
			or may not be useful, but may be interesting to
			look at if you are writing RLE programs.

	get:		Contains programs to display RLE images on various
			types of displays, and instructions on how to
			roll your own (see the README)

	include:	Necessary ".h" files for the library and toolkit.

	lib:		Sources for the RLE library.

	man:		Manual pages for the library and tools.

	tools:		Sources for the tools.

	tex:		Source for dvi to rle conversion program.
			Also has dviselect program.  Requires U of
			Maryland MC-TeX distribution (see README).

	img:		Contains a couple of uuencoded (use uudecode
			to get them back) RLE files.

The FTP distribution contains the following directories, as well.
			The following two directories are in urt-doc.tar.Z.
	doc:		Contains long narrative descriptions of
			the RLE file format and the Toolkit.
			Documentation files are in Scribe ".mss" format,
			PostScript ".ps" form, and cleartext (".doc).
			A formatted version of the toolkit paper appeared
			in the Proceedings of the USENIX 3rd Graphics
			Workshop.
	doc/pics:	Postscript form of the raster images for the
			toolkit paper.

	img:		Includes some interesting RLE image files.
			Distributed as urt-img.tar.Z.

To make and install the toolkit, you should:
	0. If you got the source-only distribution, remove all the
	   urt.kit?? and kit*isdone files:
		rm urt.kit?? kit*isdone

	1. Edit config/urt (I recommend making a copy and editing that
	   instead) to reflect your site configuration.  The
	   definitions in this file should be relatively self-
	   explanatory.  See config/README for more details.  If you
	   want to understand what is going on, look at the comments
	   in the makedef.awk script.

	   You should also look at the other files in the config
	   directory, as one of them may already be correct for you.
	   All the configuration files compile as many of the
	   conversion tools as possible for the given machine.  If you
	   don't want some of these tools, comment out the corresponding
	   lines.

	2. Configure the makefiles by running
		Configure config/urt
	   If you have made a different config file, substitute its
	   name for config/urt, of course.  Once you have done this
	   once, you can use 'make config' instead.

	3a. If you have set the "RL" path in the config file to
	   something besides "lib" (presumably the same as LIB_DEST),
	   you must first
		cd lib; make install
	   Then do 3b.

	3b. Run 'make' in this directory.  This will
	   compile the library and tools you have selected.

	4. Run 'make install' in this directory.  Alternatively, you
	   can combine 3a, 3b, and 4 by just running 'make install'
	   right away.

This version of the toolkit has been successfully compiled on the
following machines (with the corresponding configuration file
indicated in parentheses):
	Sun 3 (SunOS 4) with cc (config/sun3) and gcc
	Sun 4 (SunOS 4) (config/sun4)
	DEC 3100 (Ultrix 3.1) (config/dec)
	IBM RT (AIX ??) (config/ibm-rt)
	SGI Iris 4D (IRIX 3.2) (config/iris4d)
	Apollo (SR 10.2) (config/apollo)
	Stardent GS1000 (config/stellar)
	HP 9000/3xx,8xx (HP-UX 7.03) (config/hpux300 config/hpux800)
	Macintosh (A/UX) [note - getmac program does not work on A/UX]
	Macintosh (MacOS) with MPW [at least library and getmac program]
	Cray 2 (UNICOS) (config/cray)

If you find bugs, make improvements, write new tools or conversions,
or have questions or suggestions, please send them to the address below.

If you want to write your own tool, we suggest that you start with
tools/rleskel.c.  This has all the right code it it for opening image
files for input and output, for processing multiple images per file,
error checking, etc.

Our thanks to some beta testers (and contributors):
	Eric Haines, 3D Eye
	Gregg Townsend, CS Dept., U of Arizona
	John Peterson, Apple Computer
And to all of you who submitted new programs or ideas for new
features, especially Craig Kolb (Yale), whose 'rayshade' program provided
(indirectly) the incentive for this release.

A special thanks to Martin Friedmann, MIT Media Lab, who almost
totally revamped the 'getx11' program, so that it now works correctly,
and is the most featurful of all the toolkit programs.

Spencer W. Thomas
EECS Department
University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, MI 48109

Rod G. Bogart
Computer-Aided Engineering Network
University of Michigan
Chrysler Building
Ann Arbor, MI 48109

James Painter
Computer Science Department
University of Utah
Salt Lake City, UT 84112

When you get a copy of the toolkit, from whatever source, please let us
know at one of the addresses below.  That way, we will be able to keep
you apprised of changes and updates.

toolkit-request@cs.utah.edu
toolkit-request@caen.engin.umich.edu
