This directory holds the Docbook documentation for BRL-CAD - over time,
this should become the repository for all tutorials, man pages, and other
non-autogenerated, formatted documentation for BRL-CAD.

The xsl stylesheets for docbook are presently in the resources directory.

The current structure is as follows:

articles/
	Individual articles on specific topics - oed and tire live here,
	as well as the articles that made up the appendices of Vol III.

books/
	Either compilations of smaller documents into large works, or
	individual self contained works.  Most of Volume III is in a
	single file in this subtree.

lessons/
	Individual documents intended to teach some aspect of BRL-CAD
	to new users/students.  At this time it contains the individual
	lessons that made up Volume II.

resources/
	The DocBook xsl files are contained within the
	"standard" subdirectory.  Custom files will be organized under
	this directory in the future.

system/
	Documentation similar to traditional Unix "man" pages - focused
	documentation on specific parts of BRL-CAD.

presentations/
	Copies of briefings (slides or slides converted to documents,
	e.g., "Introduction to Tcl/Tk."

LANGUAGE CONSIDERATIONS
-----------------------

English documents are in en subdirectories.  Other languages are found
in standard two-character sub-directories.  See for example, the
Spanish translations in lessons/es.

English DocBook source files are expected to be ASCII with xhtml
unicode markup for non-ASCII symbols.  Other language source files
should be in UTF-8.

The text character code requirements may event be enforced by a
pre-commit hook script.
 
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
--------------------

These documents make extensive use of the XInclude modular documentation
specification, and as a consequence the contents of any one particular
"document" may be scattered over many other documents.  This design
direction is intended to allow re-use of standard definitions and
descriptions in multiple documents serving multiple purposes.  When
a definition is updated for one document, re-generation of other documents
will incorporate the update as well without requiring redundant editing. 

Caution - the BRL-CAD build logic is not aware of the interlinking of
various xml files using xinclude.  This means that a change on one document
may make other output files out of date, and this will not trigger a
re-build of those files automatically.

Notes:

* When rendered to html output and placed on a server, there may arise
  a problem where the server supplies the page as ISO-8859-1 encoded
  despite them actually using UTF-8.  To combat this problem in the
  case of the Apache web server, an .htaccess file in the directory 
  with the line:

    AddDefaultCharset UTF-8

  should let Apache know to use UTF-8 encoding for these pages.
